---
layout: post
title:  "Crawdad Hole"
skip_header: true
category: songs
---

# The Crawdad Song

> **chorus**  
> You get a line and I'll get a pole, honey   
> You get a line and I'll get a pole, babe   
> You get a line and I'll get a pole,   
> We'll go down to that crawdad hole,   
> Honey, oh baby mine.  
  
What did the duck say to the drake?, honey   
What did the duck say to the drake?, babe   
What did the duck say to the drake?   
There ain't no crawdads in this lake   
Honey, oh baby mine.  
  
Yonder stands a man with a pack on his back, honey   
Yonder stands a man with a pack on his back, babe   
Yonder stands a man with a pack on his back   
Got all the crawdads he can pack   
Honey, oh baby mine.  
  
Man fell down and broke that pack, honey   
Man fell down and broke that pack, babe   
Man fell down and broke that pack,   
You ought to see them crawdads packing on back   
Honey, oh baby mine.  
  
Wake up Johnny you slept too late, honey   
Wake up Johnny you slept too late, babe   
Wake up now, you slept too late   
Crawdad man done passed your gate,   
Honey, oh baby mine.  
  
Wake up Suzie you slept too late, honey   
Wake up Suzie you slept too late, babe   
Wake up now, you slept too late   
Last piece of crawdad done left your plate   
Honey, oh baby mine.  
  
What you gonna do when the creek runs dry, honey   
What you gonna do when the creek runs dry, babe   
What you gonna do when the creek runs dry,   
Sit on the banks, watch the crawdads die   
Honey, oh baby mine.  

[More Songs]({{ site.baseurl }}/songs.html)
