---
layout: post
title:  "Appalachian Christmas Resources"
skip_header: true
permalink: booklist4.html
category: books
---

# Experiencing an Appalachian Christmas

## A Selected Booklist

Here are some useful sources for further reading about Appalachian celebrations.
Since some of these titles may be out of print, be sure to contact your public
library.

**Old Songs & Singing Games** by Richard Chase, Dover, 1972.

**Singing Games and Playparty Games** by Richard Chase Dover, 1949, 1967.

**Smokehouse Ham, Spoon Bread, & Scuppernong Wine: The Folklore and Art of
Southern Appalachian Cooking** by Joseph E. Dabney, Cumberland House, 1998.

**More Than Moonshine: Appalachian Recipes and Recollections** by Sidney Saylor
Farr, University of Pittsburgh Press, 1983.

**The Christmas Revels Songbook: In Celebration of the Winter Solstice** by John and
Nancy Langstaff, Revels, 1985.

**Foxfire Book of Toys and Games** by Linda Garland Page and Hilton Smith, Dutton,
1985.

**Folk Songs of the Southern Appalachians. 2nd ed.** by Jean Ritchie, University
Press of Kentucky, 1997.

**Singing Family of the Cumberlands** by Jean Ritchie, Geordie Music, 1980.

**Foxfire Christmas: Appalachian Memories and Traditions** by Eliot Wigginton,
Doubleday, 1989.

## Children's Books

**The Adventures of Johnny May** by Robbie Branscum, Harper & Row, 1984.

**Renfroe's Christmas** by Robert Burch, Viking, 1968.

**A Certain Small Shepherd** by Rebecca Caudill,Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1965.

__*Grandfather Tales__ by Richard Chase, Houghton Mifflin, 1948.

**Tall Tales from the High Hills** by Ellis Credle, Nelson, 1957.

**Year of the Perfect Christmas Tree** by Gloria Houston, Dial, 1988.

**Littlejim's Gift: An Appalachian Christmas** by Gloria Houston, Philomel, 1994.

**The Complete Peddler's Pack: Games, Songs, Rhymes, and Riddles** by May Justus,
University of Tennessee, 1967.

**Granny Will Your Dog Bite, and Other Mountain Rhymes** by Gerry Milnes, Knopf,
1990.

**On Christmas Day in the Morning** Foreword by John Langstaff. Candlewick, 1999

**Silver Packages: An Appalachian Christmas Story** by Cynthia Rylant, Orchard, 1987

**Children of Christmas: Stories for the Season** by Cynthia Rylant, Orchard, 1987

**American Folk Songs for Christmas** by Ruth Crawford Seeger, Oak, 1953.

**An Appalachian Mother Goose** by James Still, University Press of Kentucky, 1998.

*Stories from the Grandfather Tales have been published as separate titles in
many versions by various authors. Some examples are Old Dry Frye, Sody
Saleratus, Soap, Soap, Soap, The Green Gourd, etc. Check with a children's
librarian.

## Recorded Music

**Kentucky Christmas: Old and New** Jean Ritchie family and friends. CD. Greenbays
Recordings, n.d.

**Wassail! Wassail! Early American Christmas Music** Directed by John Langstaff. CD.
Revels Records, 1982, 1988.

**American Folk Songs for Christmas [CD]. - Mike Seeger. - Rounder Records, 1989**

**A Folk Song Christmas [CD]. American Melody, 2001**

[More Books]({{ site.baseurl }}/book.html)
