---
layout: post
title:  "Teacher Resources"
skip_header: true
permalink: booklist1.html
category: books
---

# Teacher Resource Booklist

**Jack Tales: Folk Tales from the Southern Appalachians.** Collected and retold by
Richard Chase. Houghton Mifflin, 1943.

**Grandfather Tales.** Collected and retold by Richard Chase. Houghton Mifflin,
1948.

**American Folk Tales and Songs, and Other Examples of English-American Tradition
as Preserved in the Appalachian Mountains and Elsewhere in the United States.**
Compiled by Richard Chase. Dover, 1956.

**Foxfire 3: Animal Care, Banjos and Dulcimers, Hide Tanning, Summer and Fall Wild
Plant Foods, Butter Churns, Ginseng, and Still More Affairs of Plain Living.**
Edited by Eliot Wigginton. Anchor, 1975.

**Foxfire Book of Toys and Games: Reminiscences and Instructions from Appalachia.**
Edited by Linda Garland Page. E. P. Dutton, 1985.

**Folk Songs of the Southern Appalachians.** 2nd ed. As sung by Jean Ritchie.
University Press of Kentucky, 1997.

**Homemade Instruments.** By Dallas Cline. Oak Publications, 1976.

**American Folk Songs for Children.** By Ruth Crawford Seeger. Doubleday, 1948.

**Granny Will Your Dog Bite and Other Mountain Rhymes.** By Gerald Milnes. Knopf,
1990.

**Singing Games and Play Party Games.** Compiled by Richard Chase. Dover, 1949.

**Front Porch Old-Time Songs, Jokes & Stories: 48 Great Southern Sing-Along
Favorites.** By Wayne Erbsen. Native Ground Music, 1993.

**Whoppers, Tall Tales, and Other Lies.** Collected from American folklore by Alvin
Schwartz. Lippincott, 1975.

**Hidden Stories In Plants.** By Anne Pellowski. Macmillan, 1990. Musical
instruments to make from plants!

[More Books]({{ site.baseurl }}/book.html)
