---
layout: post
title:  "Railroad Track"
category: figures_and_breaks
---
  
Source: "Railroad Track," West Virginia version - see www.bubbaguitar.com. A Look at Southern Squares  
  
All join hands and make a big ring   
Circle to the left with your pretty little thing.   
All the way around and half way back   
LADIES in the lead, gents in back.   
Hold where you are and settle down   
Swing your partner one time around.  
  
LADIES in the center back to back   
GENTS you walk the railroad track.   
Pass your partner BY ONE   
Swing the next.   
Don't forget to place HIM back  
  
LADIES walk the railroad track.   
Pass your partner BY TWO   
Swing the next.   
Don't forget to place HER back  
  
GENTS you walk the railroad track.   
Pass your partner BY THREE   
Swing the next.  
  
(continue as above until all have danced with each other; partners will be next in line to dance)  
  
Get your partner when you come around.   
Swing HER out and promenade.   
Promenade around that ring   
Promenade your pretty little thing.  
  
Teaching Words  
  
LADIES step into center and stand back to back facing out.   
GENTS walk single file counterclockwise (ccw) all the way around the ladies,   
pass partner,   
stop in front of the next lady and swing with her.  
  
Now, at the finish of this swing,   
LADIES put the gents in the center back to back.   
LADIES now promenade single file ccw all the way around,   
pass ORIGINAL partner and next gent,   
stop before the third gent and swing with him.  
  
GENT puts the lady in the center back to back   
and continues ccw all the way around the ladies,   
passes the last one he swung   
and stops in front of the next lady to swing with her.  
  
Repeat, alternating between gents and ladies until back with partners.  
  