---
layout: post
title:  "Forward Up Six"
category: dances
---
  
Source: This is based upon a visiting couple call that Russ learned from
Cincinnati caller Martha Danforth. Although she used a rhyming patter call, Russ
uses prompts that don't necessarily rhyme and are not the exact words given
here. Note that instructions are directed to the gents. In the figures, the
instructions are to the lead gent.  

All join hands and circle to the left...   
...Now back to the right, you're going wrong.   
When you get home, swing your partner.  
  
BREAK: Allemande your corner with the old left hand   
Now back to your partner with a right and left grand   
Rights and lefts around the hall   
Meet your partner, promenade all  
  
FIGURE: First couple out to couple number two   
Circle up four, that's what you do   
Leave your lady where she be   
Now on to the next and circle up three  
  
Steal that lady in your right hand   
Circle up four, you're doing grand   
Leave her there, go home alone...  
  
Forward up six and six fall back   
Two lone gents go back to back   
Right hands high and left hands low   
Twirl the gals and let 'em go  
  
(Repeat the "forward up six" pattern three more times until lead gent comes back to his original partner.)  
  
Swing your partners!  
  
BREAK  
  
FIGURE: Repeat with gent number two going out to couple number three, four, and
one, followed by the "forward up six" pattern until gent number two meets his
original partner.  
  
Swing your partners!  
  
BREAK  
  
FIGURE: Repeat with gent number three going out to couple number four, one, and
two, followed by the "forward up six" pattern until gent number three meets his
original partner.  
  
Swing your partners!  
  
BREAK  
  
FIGURE: Repeat with gent number four going out to couple number one, two, and
three, followed by the "forward up six" pattern until gent number four meets his
original partner.  
  
Swing your partners!  
  
BREAK  
  